8.20. POLICY FOR NETWORK SECURITY
8.20.1. PURPOSE
This Network Security Policy outlines the principles and standards for RSET's network infrastructure, data, and information systems. The goal is to protect against unauthorized access, data breaches, and other network-related security threats.
8.20.2. SCOPE
This policy applies to all employees, contractors, third-party vendors, and any other individuals or devices that connect to RSET's network resources.
8.20.3. POLICY STATEMENTS
(A) General
Clause 1: The network design shall be prepared considering the security requirements, including firewalls, intrusion detection/prevention systems, and access controls.
Clause 2: Access to the network shall be granted based on the principle of least privilege, ensuring that individuals have access only to the resources necessary for their roles.
Clause 3: Strong authentication mechanisms, such as multi-factor authentication (MFA), shall be employed where applicable.
Clause 4: All network devices and systems shall be kept up to date with security patches and updates.
Clause 5: A documented process for patch management shall be followed to minimize vulnerabilities.
Clause 6: Logs of network activities will be maintained, and logs will be regularly reviewed for security incidents.
Clause 7: Network shall be segregated based on access requirements and restrictions.
Clause 8: Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration testing shall be conducted once in a year on systems, applications, and network devices to verify the robustness of the security controls in place.
Clause 9: All incidents reported shall be managed by following policy for “Incident Management”.
(B) VPN Policy
Clause 1: VPN access must require multi factor authentication by user.
Clause 2: All traffic must be encrypted using standard protocols. 
Clause 3: All authentication attempts shall be logged.
Clause 4: It is the responsibility of the user with VPN privilege to ensure that unauthorized users are not allowed access.
Clause 5: VPN access shall be provided to users with an approved business case. Business Manager shall approve the VPN access request.  
Clause 6: Users are required to install the VPN client software as directed by RSET IT team to activate their VPN access.
Clause 7: All systems connected to RSET internal networks via RSET must use properly configured,
up-to-date anti-virus software, Users of computers that are not RSET owned must configure as per policies set by RSET IT team.
Clause 8: VPN access shall be removed at the end of the project, contract closure, employee exit etc.
(C) Firewall Policy
Clause 1: All firewalls and their network components shall be operated, managed, and maintained by the Information Technology Department.
Clause 2: All changes to the external network connections, firewall, switches, and router configurations must be approved by head of IT & head of Information Security Office and tested prior to implementing the change.
Clause 3: The following services/ports are necessary for business purposes and will be allowed through the firewall. If any other protocols are to be used, justification for the same shall be documented.
o HTTPS (TCP/443)
o SSH (TCP/22)
o SMTP (TCP/25)
o VPN
Clause 4: Firewall configurations shall be reviewed annually. 
Clause 5: Before a firewall rule set is created, a risk analysis should be performed to develop a list of the types of traffic needed by “RSET” and categorize how they must be secured—including which types of traffic can pass through a firewall under what circumstances.
Clause 5: The approach adopted to define firewall rule set is “least privilege” that all services are denied by default in the firewall unless expressly permitted in this policy.
Clause 7: When implementing firewalls, IT team must employ a high availability design to ensure uninterrupted access to network resources. 
Clause 8: Access to external websites shall be controlled to reduce exposure to malicious content.
Clause 9: Firewall rules shall be defined and implemented after CISO approval.
Clause 10: Firewall logs should be reviewed periodically to monitor any unauthorized access from external networks.